---
layout: post
title: Week 3-The Mistake
author: Mohammad Khan
category: [screenplay]
tags: [screenplay]
---
SCENE 1: Opening
INTERIOR(INT)- A LAB PRESENT DAY
The lab is disheveled. Unrecognizable in any form to a visitor.
Mysterious chemicals and mechanisms paint the walls and fill the space.
The walls covered in abstract equations and epiphanies. A scientist and
an aide are hastily working together. Fear can be seen in their shaky
movements and expressions.
BANG. BANG. BANG. Something is trying to break in.
Scientist:
(Yells to the aide from across the room)
“I think I got it!”
The aide rushes over.

AIDE
“How much do we need?”

SCIENTIST
“Only a small dose for some lasting damage”

BANG. BANG. BANG.
Exasperated . The aide quickly pulls out lethal chemicals to add to the
dose.
The scientist stops the aide & throws the bottle away.

SCIENTIST
“No! I will not kill it-.”

AIDE
“-It will kill us!...It has already tried. It’s
learning too quickly. It’s becoming too sentient. We must kill it. You
made a mistake. We...made a mistake. We need a better plan.”
BANG. The door broke of the hinges.

SCENE 2: The Beginning
INTERIOR- Lab 7 days earlier
The lab looks more tidy. Well kept. Each shelf and book labeled
properly. Not a hair out of place.
The scientist is working on a project. The aide walks into the lab
holding a cup of coffee.
Aide:
“Still working on the creature?”

SCIENTIST
“Oh no. I left the creature project. Ran into a few bugs
that I haven’t been able to solve yet. This is something else. I want to
see if this works.”

The scientist turns on a machine and a humming noise fills the room.
The aide looks at the scientists curiously. The scientist gestures, hold
on and holds up a light bulb.
The bulb powers on.
Astonished, the aide grabs the bulb starts walking away from the machine
and places the cup on a table. The bulb continues to stay lit.
The aide walks back and hands the bulb to the scientist.

AIDE:
“This is pretty impressive. What are you going to use it for?”
MOVEMENT IN BACKGROUND but the aide and scientist don’t hear it.

SCIENTIST
(excited)
“What can’t I use it for? I can know power this place.”
MOVEMENTS more often in the lab, but they don’t hear it.
The aide and Scientist start to walk to the exit talking excitedly. The
aide knocks over the coffee cup to the ground.

Before the cup reaches the ground, the creature catches the cup.
The scientist and aide back away from the creature.
The creature stands and studies the cup intently. As if it’s studying
it. It places the cup down on the table and watches itself. It watches
its arm move and place the cup on the table. The creature sees its arms.
The eyes squinting and analyzing its features. The rubbery material
covering the internal operations. It feels its face. The small nose and
eyes. The mouth from which no words escape. It then looks at the aide
and scientist. Looking at them with wonder and intrigue, it approaches
closer.
The aide steps back, but the scientist remains.
The creature approaches the scientist with a studying gaze. It seems to
scan the scientist.

SCIENTIST- standing marveling at the creature.
SCIENTIST:
(to self)
“it really worked. I can’t believe it”

AIDE
(afraid)
“What did you do?”

SCIENTIST
“I made the creature.”

AIDE:
“I thought you stopped working on it? How is it powered?”

SCIENTIST:
“I have no idea. I guess it could’ve been the wireless power
from just now.”

SCIENTIST- approaches the creature. Fascinated
The creature steps back at first, but grows comfortable with the
scientist. The creature stands facing the scientist.
Aide
“So it was a mistake?”

SCIENTIST
(nods, smiling)
“A mistake.”

SCENE 3: Learning
INT- LAB 5 Days ago
The lab, now filled with three occupants, is lively. Aide and Scientist
working hand-in-hand with the creature. The creature is working in the
lab.
The scientist is mixing chemicals and the aide is recording the data.
The creature works on its own in the corner and occasionally helps the
aide and scientist.

SCIENTIST
(to the aide)
“I think we’re almost there. A few more experiments and we
might create another creature. I don’t remember the formula for
instilling consciousness. I think I left in my notebook, could you hand
it to me?”

The aide looks around for the book. Moving papers and equipment around.

AIDE
“I don’t see it. Where did you place it?”

SCIENTIST
“Oh. It should be right-”

SCIENTIST- sees creature reading the notebook and rushes toward it.

CREATURE- flips through the pages and closes the book as if it’s done
examining and learning it. The creature tossed the book into a burner
and set it aflame. Decades of knowledge and experience reduced to ashes.
It stared a the flames dancing around and through the book.
The scientist tries to save the notebook before it burns, but all of its
pages were destroyed beyond repair.
The creature continues to stare at the embers within burner as if
entranced by its beauty and destruction.

SCIENTIST
“Vile Creature! Do you what you have destroyed? Years of effort
and knowledge gone! Idiot!”

The creature ignores the scientists outburst and continues to stare the
flame.
The scientist grabs the creature by the shoulder to get its attention.

SCIENTIST (contin)
(calmer)
“You need to be more careful experimenting. You could’ve blown
up the lab and hurt us or yourself.”
The creature stares at the burned notebook in the scientist’s hand. It
doesn’t say anything. It nods, smiling in agreement and the creature
leaves the lab.
The scientist places the notebook on a desk.

AIDE:
“We can rebuild. We can start over. The creature I mean. It’s
not a perfect reflection of us, but we can get it there. We just need a
plan to put this creature down.”

SCIENTIST- nods in agreement. Then realizes something. Glides over to
the area where the creature was working before it incinerate the book.
The scientist rummages through the ashes and drawers.
AIDE:
“What are you doing?”

SCIENTIST:
(not looking at AIDE)
“verifying a hypothesis”

SCIENTIST- finds a smaller notebook. Filled with scribbles and images.
The pages are hand-stitched and bound. The first pages are the images from
the beginning days of the creature’s life. The scientist is flipping
through the pages and lands on crude drawing of the Scientist and the
Aide.

AIDE:
(curiously)
“It’s been watching us..”

SCIENTIST
(horrified realization)
“Not just us. Everything. It’s been observing and recording
feelings. It’s been learning at an exponential rate.”

AIDE:
“Isn’t that good?”

SCIENTIST:
“Yes but-“

SCIENTIST- stops speaking abruptly because of the writing on the page.

SCIENTIST (contin)
“It taught itself how to write..”
The writing on the page was from today’s experiment.In exquisite detail,
the creature wrote the proportions it needed and did perfect
calculations.

AIDE;
“What was it making?”

SCIENTIST
“A smokeless and odorless fire ...”

SCIENTIST-stands in anger.
“It wasn’t nodding in agreement. It was saying it knew what it
was doing and burned my notes anyway.”
The scientist tosses the book of the creature into the flames.

SCENE 4: The Fall
INT- LAB PRESENT DAY
The lab is disheveled. Unrecognizable in any form to a visitor.
Mysterious chemicals and mechanisms paint the walls and fill the space.
The walls covered in abstract equations and epiphanies. A scientist and
an aide are hastily working together. Fear can be seen in their shaky
movements and expressions.

AIDE
“-It will kill us!...It has already tried. It’s
learning too quickly. It’s becoming too sentient. We must kill it. You
made a mistake. We...made a mistake.”

BANG. The door broke of the hinges.
The Scientist & Aide hide in the lab.
There stood the creature. Proud of its accomplishments and bloodthirsty.
The light of the lab glistened off the creature’s body. From the blood
on its hands and the blood it dragged in with it.

SCIENTIST
(whispering to aide)
“I made an airborne disease that will not affect us but will
render the creature unconscious. After that, we should be able to handle
it.”

The creature heard the speaking and found the scientist and aide.

CREATURE
(menacing growl)
“You’ll handle me?”
It lifts the scientist by the head. The scientist squirms in the skull
crushing grip of the creature.

CREATURE (contin)
“How little do you think of me? I am as good as you are master. Did
you not think I would account for an airborne disease?”

SCIENTIST
(in pain)
“Actually. I was hoping you would.”

The aide lunges towards the creature with a syringe. The creature
catches the aide’s forearm and snaps the wrist. In that moment, the grip
lessened allowing the SCIENTIST to stab the creature with a syringe.
The creature stumbles backward in pain. It removes the syringe and
throws it away. It grabs and lifts the scientist by the throat.
Squeezing the life out of the scientist, but the creature faints from
exhaustion.
The Scientist falls to the ground wheezing.

AIDE:
(in pain)
“are you okay?”

SCIENTIST:
“yeah. Yeah, I’m fine. Let me get you some ice.”
Both stand above the creature. Looking at the horrible monster in front
of them.

SCIENTIST - walks to a shelf and pulls out a book and ice for the Aide’s
wrist. The aide takes the ice.

AIDE:
“We need to destroy it.”

SCIENTIST:
“No. We’re not. We’re going to do something else.”

SCIENTIST:
(points to a point on the map in the book)
“I’m sending it there.”

SCIENTIST and AIDE drag the body of the creature to a pod.

AIDE:(VOICE OVER = V.O)
(curiously)
“what’s to stop it from returning.”

SCIENTIST(V.O)
“It’ll have to toil for eons for it to reach back home.
Where it began. It’s possible, but I hope something will be different.”
The creature in the pod awakens. It sees the the straps holding it down
and the scientist and aide standing beyond a protective barrier. It
doesn’t struggle in its restraints. It stares at the scientist as it
convey, if you know this would happen then why did you create me....

AIDE (V.O)
“What are you hoping will change? It tried to kill us. That
thing isn’t capable.”

SCIENTIST(V.O)
“You’re probably right, this one may not change. But the
others might. I did make it in my image after all. If it’s anything like
me, it’ll find a away back or die trying.”

AIDE (V.O)
“How much is it like you?”
The pod shoots off into the darkness.
The scene returns to the aide and scientist in the lab.

SCIENTIST:
“Exactly like me. I won’t be making more, anytime soon.”

AIDE:
“What if it doesn’t change? What if it dies?”

CUT TO:
Pod hurling through an atmosphere. Fire engulfs the pod. The pod mid
flight opens releasing the creature and launching towards the ground.
The creature lands on soil. It looks up at its surrounding.

SCIENTIST (V.O):
“I saw some redemption in its eyes before we sent it. I
believe that it can become better.”
The creature sees the beautiful sky. The infinite stretch of plains that
lay in front of it. A golden sunset filled the sky as a soft breeze
brushed the plains. The creature sees a tree in the distance.

AIDE (V.O).
“How can you be so sure?”
SCIENTIST (V.O)
“I’m not. But I can have hope. It can have hope.”
The creature walks towards the tree hungry for its fruit.
SCIENTIST (V.O)
“After all, it’s only human.”

THE END

