---
layout: post
title: Week 89 -  On Structures
author: Mohammad Khan
category: [Poem]
tags: [poem, year 2]
---
Brick by brick we lay the groundwork.
One by one we kept our heads down and our hands in the dirt. 
We pass buckets of mud and cement and rusted trowels back and forth. 
Back and forth, and only our hands communicate. 
Not once did we look up at the other. 
Building the foundation with bricks thrown at us by others.
<br>
<br>
Day by day, the foundation was built.
Smeared over with a slurry cement, cracks in the foundation vanish. 
Yet it still stands. 
A gilded finish blinds the beholder. 
<br>
<br>
And in the structure’s shadow, 
Beside me, stands a silhouette, only whose hands I’ve only felt.
Their hands made the structure just as mine.
Not once did I look at them.
<br>
<br>
Bolstering the structure from immense winds and torturous weather,
Faults formed and traversed the perimeter.
Chipping and breaking its luminescent sheen.
<br>
<br>
Layer by layer I slather cement, mud, glue, anything to cover the faults.
And layer by layer, the faults remain on top.
A bottomless chasm etched into the structure. 
<br>
<br>
The faults remained on top, ever present, yet easily missed.
I placed my hand atop and the fault laid on top my hand. 
The faults weren’t in the structure, they were in me. 
<br><br>
The Sun shone through my faults
And the faults reflected in the structure.
<br>
<br>
Stepping back the faults grew and the structure crumpled. 
Soot and smoke filled the air and the silhouette stood across.
The gray atmosphere faded and I saw me.





